# Gender gap notes

# Revisions

Introduce probability model earlier?


Integrate methods with example?

- you can derive some quantity, as we do here...


# apw

see notebook for written comments

Reorder the paper

- theory, then case
  - how do we get to the need for the theory
    - Daron Shaw: why/how are elections not just partisanship
      - need to get to groups
      - parties are already coalitions
      - race is a helpful motivator
  - how do we get away with doing just one case
    - hype the conventional wisdom
  - If we're going to put theory first, 

Fight Axelrod more?

Fight gender gap lit more? (partisanship)

Defining persuasion (disloyal and voted) and mobilized (loyal and voted)

Color, legends bigger

Here's what you can do:

- multichotomous groups
- change over time
- unequally sized groups
  - math for this???
- enfranchisement and compositional change


Try race:

- Rmd report
- if race, then QJPS??
- if race, PB or BJPS?

Send Marcy an email


Amp up the energy level of the talk

- slow doesn't have to be bland
- be 10-20% more of yourself


Check most recent email from APR?


Chunk up the math and the graphics?

- subsections for what you can learn
- advertises the method but not the case findings


Why start at party:

- standing decision, a starting point
- if you're a campaign, you start there


What to cut?

- This will become clear?


What next?

- I'll look at race
- We'll let each other know




# Weights

Ask Barry and Alex about rescaling weights so `max(wt) == 1`

Approximate binomial? k and n in each group are a rounding of weighted data


# Revisions

we promise "trace how mechanisms create the gender gap and the democratic vote" but we don't really visualize the gender gap

"net gender gap"

- it is an important concept, but we need to do something to visualize it
  + in the operationalization: show a comparison of gender gap to net gender gap (and net votes to dem margin)
  + net gender gap looks so similar because the groups are evenly sized. For any other group this would look quite different. Not that it's a no-value-added measure.
- Normal measure doesn't have the information we need in it. New measure looks similar, constructed in a way that lets us back out important quantities


Figure pathway:

- gender gap
- scatters (make this three panels?)
- Party ID (cut? collapse panels into one by differencing across party?)
- RHS (both party assumptions)
- gap partials
- vote partials





- How they make the gap
  + partisanship:
    * early series: men and women each have Democratic advantage, offsetting influence on gender gap
    * Men move first, gap in PID emerges far earlier than voting suggests
  + mobilization
    * mobilization *decreased* the gender gap, because Democratic women not turnout out outweighed Republican's turnout advantage among men
  + Persuasion
    * men and women tend to move together, no clear net impact on the gender gap
  + Unaffiliated:
    * Men swing vote toward GOP as they became more Republican, so there is some boost in the middle period
    * more recently, no clear impact, similar dynamics to persuasion
- Gap value(?): 
  + there may be some difference in the amount of advantage that Dems get from women vs men, or Republicans get from men vs women
  + A key question is whether Democrats' numerical advantage from women (over men) is greater than the Republicans' numerical advantage from men (over women)
  + this is actually *equivalent* to the Net Democratic Vote. So *statistically*, the Net Democratic Vote that contains information 
  + *dynamically*, which is maybe what we mean
- Link gap to vote, formally
  + there should be a regression in each panel
  + and first differences!


Write appendix

# Publication

- grayscale-friendly figures
- acknowledgements
- non-anonymous
- contact info
- replication information
- check with Barry why the net vote would be so high?



# Revisions

Questions for Barry:

- dynamics:
  + we just use our eyeballs to judge how shifts in mechanisms are related to gap and vote
  + but dynamics definitely could show this more explicitly?

Code:

- prop.ci use T distribution instead?
- move user functions (prop CI) into another file?
- Re-do CDF cleaning
- double-check tex refs

Directory

- pitch old shit
- why doesn't gitignore work with tex/


writing

- scholarly cites for conventional wisdom
  + Ondercin?
- delete earlier references to *net gender gap*

tex:

- adapt to new template style?


# aesthetics

cite color?

floatstyle{ruled}?

times new roman?



# JOP reviews and to-do

To do

- put in 2016?
- rework the front
- rework the framing of the conventional wisdom
  + dig up Norrander


Conventional wisdom as media but not scholarly

- Kaufmann Petrocik paragraph up front
  + maybe they don't have the mechanism
  + maybe it's just old
- Find scholars that engage in this as well


Email ANES (Barry does it)

- check 2012 vs CDF


Gender gap in UK politics?






# Notes to Barry


<!-- - will mayer (http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1532673X06297000) finds men more swingy -->




# Future questions?

landslides reduce the gender gap since everybody flows together?



