---
title: Gender gap notes
---


# hooks

- white women vs. people of color

# Grimmer and Marble


Ideas for what we should do:

- more careful layout of terms (such as "advantage", "denominator" out in front)
- A more careful description of how there is no "baseline" with two exhaustive groups?




# Revisions

Mike code things:

- renv?

apw

- see notebook for written comments

*Check most recent email from APR?*

Reorder: theory and then case

- why theory?
- Daron Shaw: why/how are elections not just partisanship
  - work this to a *group* analysis
  - parties are already coalitions
  - race a helpful motivator/framing device
- how do we get away with doing just one case
    - hype the conventional wisdom
- landslides reduce the gender gap since everybody flows together?



Argument

- Confront Axelrod more
  - table to show shortcomings?
- Slower definitions of concepts
  - persuasion means partisan, voted, and disloyal
  - mobilized means partisan, voted, and loyal
- (delete earlier references to *net gender gap*? Still applicable?)
- advantage doesn't *always* imply disadvantage
  - a cleavage may appear "disadvantageous," but that doesn't mean that *not* courting those voters makes a party better off.

Gender as a case

- rework the framing of the conventional wisdom
  - Conventional wisdom as media but not scholarly?
  - need scholarly cites
  - Norrander
  - Ondercin
- Confront gender gap lit more
  - will mayer (http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1532673X06297000) finds men more swingy
  - what isn't it doing for us?
  - Kaufmann Petrocik paragraph up front
    - maybe they don't have the mechanism
    - maybe it's just old
    - (*still applicable?*)



Introduce probability model earlier?

- Why start at party:
  - standing decision, a starting point
  - if you're a campaign, you start there


Integrate methods with example?

- you can derive some quantity, as we do here...
- start w/ model, manipulate, show something
- emphasize what it tells you *about the case*

Old notes on "figure pathway":

- gender gap
- scatters (make this three panels?)
- Party ID (cut? collapse panels into one by differencing across party?)
- RHS (both party assumptions)
- gap partials
- vote partials


Aesthetics:

- revisit colors
- bigger labels
- interpretive labels! This is how you read the figure


Recommendations for future analysis:

- comparison to group contributions (Axelrod)?
- polytomous groups
- dynamic parameters for over-time smoothing
- differencing over time
  - we just use our eyeballs to judge how shifts in mechanisms are related to gap and vote
  - a subsection demonstrating the use of parameter differencing?
- An example w/ unequally sized groups (what did I mean for this?)
- Other political change: enfranchisement, compositional change


Promises:

- "net gender gap"
  - we promise "trace how mechanisms create the gender gap and the democratic vote" but we don't really visualize the gender gap 
  - it is an important concept, but we need to do something to visualize it
  - in the operationalization: show a comparison of gender gap to net gender gap (and net votes to dem margin)
  - Normal measure doesn't have the information we need in it. New measure looks similar, constructed in a way that lets us back out important quantities
  - net gender gap looks so similar because the groups are evenly sized. For any other group this would look quite different. Not that it's a no-value-added measure.

Empirics:

- Making the gap
  - partisanship:
    - early series: men and women each have Democratic advantage, offsetting influence on gender gap
    - Men move first, gap in PID emerges far earlier than voting suggests
  - mobilization
    - mobilization *decreased* the gender gap, because Democratic women not turnout out outweighed Republican's turnout advantage among men
  - Persuasion
    - men and women tend to move together, no clear net impact on the gender gap
  - Unaffiliated:
    - Men swing vote toward GOP as they became more Republican, so there is some boost in the middle period
    - more recently, no clear impact, similar dynamics to persuasion
- Gap value(?): 
  - there may be some difference in the amount of advantage that Dems get from women vs men, or Republicans get from men vs women
  - A key question is whether Democrats' numerical advantage from women (over men) is greater than the Republicans' numerical advantage from men (over women)
  - this is actually *equivalent* to the Net Democratic Vote. So *statistically*, the Net Democratic Vote that contains information 
  - *dynamically*, which is maybe what we mean
- Link gap to vote, formally
  - there should be a regression in each panel
  - and first differences!




# Code

Filtering questions

- we've been dropping 1948 (662 responses)
- we've been doing presidential only but never checked midterms
  + maybe make a "valid cycles" vector and have analysis depend on that
- should we omit everyone who votes third-party? code them as not mobilized?


party ID code

- DK to "Other" but drop NA or explicit refusals?
  + DKs don't seem to be kept in the 3-cat lean variable
  + should I do this all myself?

Notes to self

- recheck weights
  - Ask Barry and Alex about rescaling weights so `max(wt) == 1`
- add notes to main notes file:
  + delete notes to self in recode file (omitted recodes)
  + use code NUKE
  + uncomment source() commands in build file

model:

- Approximate binomial? 
- k and n in each group are a rounding of weighted data

prop_ci function:

- T-distribution?
- where does this get defined?

Data cleaning:

- Redo data cleaning
- redo other code?
- folders for output and stuff?






# Publication

- grayscale-friendly figures
- acknowledgements
- non-anonymous
- contact info
- replication information
- check with Barry why the net vote would be so high?



# Future papers

Try race:

- Rmd report
- if race, then QJPS??
- if race, PB or BJPS?

Hierarchical version




